Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is relatively common, with an incidence estimated
as high as 50 cases per 100,000 people per year. This cancer mainly affects older
(>or=60 years) patients. MDS refers to a collection of hematologic malignancies
that share an ineffective production, or hematopoiesis, of normal bone marrow or
myeloid cells. As progressive bone marrow failure occurs, patients generally
display gradually worsening cytopenias specific to the type of bone marrow cell
affected, such as thrombocytopenia or neutropenia. MDS patients often develop
disease-related anemia requiring chronic blood transfusion; this can lead to
complications including iron overload. As MDS progresses and the number of bone
marrow blasts increases, the disease transforms into acute myelogenous leukemia
(AML). Several classification systems have been developed to identify and
differentiate particular types of MDS. Proper identification is essential,
allowing the oncologist to determine prognosis, as well as the optimal
therapeutic strategy. Several agents have been developed or are under
investigation for the treatment of MDS, with the therapeutic goal of increasing
survival and decreasing the rate of AML transformation. Currently, 3 agents are
FDA-approved: azacitidine, decitabine, and lenalidomide. This clinical roundtable
will discuss the optimal management of patients with each of these approved
therapies, as well as the various classification systems used to differentiate
MDS subtypes for treatment.

As with many malignancies, cytogenetic information has become increasingly
important to the diagnosis and proper treatment of colorectal cancer. In
particular, several recent studies have confirmed that KRAS is not only one of
the most commonly mutated genes in colorectal cancer, but also essential to
treatment decision-making. Several key studies have demonstrated that patients
with mutant KRAS do not respond to treatment with epidermal growth factor
inhibitors. This finding has several implications for clinicians who treat
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The following monograph includes
discussions on the key issues surrounding the integration of recent data on KRAS
status into the care of patients with this disease.

As with many malignancies, cytogenetic information has become increasingly
important to the diagnosis and proper treatment of colorectal cancer. In
particular, several recent studies have confirmed that KRAS is not only one of
the most commonly mutated genes in colorectal cancer, but also essential to
treatment decision-making. Several key studies have demonstrated that patients
with mutant KRAS do not respond to treatment with epidermal growth factor
inhibitors. This finding has several implications for clinicians who treat
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The following monograph includes
discussions on the key issues surrounding the integration of recent data on KRAS
status into the care of patients with this disease.

As with many malignancies, cytogenetic information has become increasingly
important to the diagnosis and proper treatment of colorectal cancer. In
particular, several recent studies have confirmed that KRAS is not only one of
the most commonly mutated genes in colorectal cancer, but also essential to
treatment decision-making. Several key studies have demonstrated that patients
with mutant KRAS do not respond to treatment with epidermal growth factor
inhibitors. This finding has several implications for clinicians who treat
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The following monograph includes
discussions on the key issues surrounding the integration of recent data on KRAS
status into the care of patients with this disease.

As with many malignancies, cytogenetic information has become increasingly
important to the diagnosis and proper treatment of colorectal cancer. In
particular, several recent studies have confirmed that KRAS is not only one of
the most commonly mutated genes in colorectal cancer, but also essential to
treatment decision-making. Several key studies have demonstrated that patients
with mutant KRAS do not respond to treatment with epidermal growth factor
inhibitors. This finding has several implications for clinicians who treat
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The following monograph includes
discussions on the key issues surrounding the integration of recent data on KRAS
status into the care of patients with this disease.

As with many malignancies, cytogenetic information has become increasingly
important to the diagnosis and proper treatment of colorectal cancer. In
particular, several recent studies have confirmed that KRAS is not only one of
the most commonly mutated genes in colorectal cancer, but also essential to
treatment decision-making. Several key studies have demonstrated that patients
with mutant KRAS do not respond to treatment with epidermal growth factor
inhibitors. This finding has several implications for clinicians who treat
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The following monograph includes
discussions on the key issues surrounding the integration of recent data on KRAS
status into the care of patients with this disease.

As with many malignancies, cytogenetic information has become increasingly
important to the diagnosis and proper treatment of colorectal cancer. In
particular, several recent studies have confirmed that KRAS is not only one of
the most commonly mutated genes in colorectal cancer, but also essential to
treatment decision-making. Several key studies have demonstrated that patients
with mutant KRAS do not respond to treatment with epidermal growth factor
inhibitors. This finding has several implications for clinicians who treat
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The following monograph includes
discussions on the key issues surrounding the integration of recent data on KRAS
status into the care of patients with this disease.

As with many malignancies, cytogenetic information has become increasingly
important to the diagnosis and proper treatment of colorectal cancer. In
particular, several recent studies have confirmed that KRAS is not only one of
the most commonly mutated genes in colorectal cancer, but also essential to
treatment decision-making. Several key studies have demonstrated that patients
with mutant KRAS do not respond to treatment with epidermal growth factor
inhibitors. This finding has several implications for clinicians who treat
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The following monograph includes
discussions on the key issues surrounding the integration of recent data on KRAS
status into the care of patients with this disease.

As with many malignancies, cytogenetic information has become increasingly
important to the diagnosis and proper treatment of colorectal cancer. In
particular, several recent studies have confirmed that KRAS is not only one of
the most commonly mutated genes in colorectal cancer, but also essential to
treatment decision-making. Several key studies have demonstrated that patients
with mutant KRAS do not respond to treatment with epidermal growth factor
inhibitors. This finding has several implications for clinicians who treat
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The following monograph includes
discussions on the key issues surrounding the integration of recent data on KRAS
status into the care of patients with this disease.

As with many malignancies, cytogenetic information has become increasingly
important to the diagnosis and proper treatment of colorectal cancer. In
particular, several recent studies have confirmed that KRAS is not only one of
the most commonly mutated genes in colorectal cancer, but also essential to
treatment decision-making. Several key studies have demonstrated that patients
with mutant KRAS do not respond to treatment with epidermal growth factor
inhibitors. This finding has several implications for clinicians who treat
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The following monograph includes
discussions on the key issues surrounding the integration of recent data on KRAS
status into the care of patients with this disease.
