1: Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2008 Dec;6(12):1-15.

Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) is relatively common, with an incidence estimated
as high as 50 cases per 100,000 people per year. This cancer mainly affects older
(>or=60 years) patients. MDS refers to a collection of hematologic malignancies
that share an ineffective production, or hematopoiesis, of normal bone marrow or
myeloid cells. As progressive bone marrow failure occurs, patients generally
display gradually worsening cytopenias specific to the type of bone marrow cell
affected, such as thrombocytopenia or neutropenia. MDS patients often develop
disease-related anemia requiring chronic blood transfusion; this can lead to
complications including iron overload. As MDS progresses and the number of bone
marrow blasts increases, the disease transforms into acute myelogenous leukemia
(AML). Several classification systems have been developed to identify and
differentiate particular types of MDS. Proper identification is essential,
allowing the oncologist to determine prognosis, as well as the optimal
therapeutic strategy. Several agents have been developed or are under
investigation for the treatment of MDS, with the therapeutic goal of increasing
survival and decreasing the rate of AML transformation. Currently, 3 agents are
FDA-approved: azacitidine, decitabine, and lenalidomide. This clinical roundtable
will discuss the optimal management of patients with each of these approved
therapies, as well as the various classification systems used to differentiate
MDS subtypes for treatment.

2: Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2008 Dec;6(12):1-13, 14-6.

As with many malignancies, cytogenetic information has become increasingly
important to the diagnosis and proper treatment of colorectal cancer. In
particular, several recent studies have confirmed that KRAS is not only one of
the most commonly mutated genes in colorectal cancer, but also essential to
treatment decision-making. Several key studies have demonstrated that patients
with mutant KRAS do not respond to treatment with epidermal growth factor
inhibitors. This finding has several implications for clinicians who treat
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer. The following monograph includes
discussions on the key issues surrounding the integration of recent data on KRAS
status into the care of patients with this disease.

3: J Phys Chem B. 2008 Dec 25;112(51):16975-81.

Amelogenin is the predominant protein found during enamel development and has
been shown to be essential to proper enamel formation. Leucine-rich amelogenin
peptide (LRAP) is a naturally occurring splice variant that preserves the charged
N- and C-termini of full length amelogenin, regions thought to be crucial in
interacting with hydroxaypatite. Particularly, the highly charged C-terminal
hexapeptide (KREEVD) is thought to be the region most intimately interacting with
hydroxyapatite (HAP). The structure of this charged region was investigated,
along with the proximity to the surface and the mobility of two of the residues.
The structure was found to be consistent with a random coil or more extended
structure, as has been seen for more internalized residues in the C-terminus. The
backbone K54(13C'), V58(13C'), and V58(15N) were all found to be close to the
surface of HAP, approximately 6.0 angstroms from the nearest 31P atom, suggesting
a strong interaction and emphasizing the importance of these residues in
interacting with HAP. However, both ends of the hexapeptide at residues K54 and
V58 experience significant mobility under hydrated conditions, implying that
another portion of the protein helps to stabilize the strong LRAP-HAP
interaction. Interestingly, the backbone of the C-terminal third of the protein
is consistently 6.0 angstroms from the HAP surface, providing a model in this
region of the protein lying flat on the surface with no three-dimensional
folding. The combination of these features, that is, a random coil structure, a
significant mobility, and a lack of three-dimensional folding in this region of
the protein, may have an important functional role, possibly allowing maximum
crystal inhibition at low protein concentrations.

4: Nano Lett. 2008 Dec;8(12):4151-7.

The idea of electronic yarns and textiles has appeared for quite some time, but
their properties often do not meet practical expectations. In addition to
chemicallmechanical durability and high electrical conductivity, important
materials qualifications include weavablity, wearability, light weight, and
"smart" functionalities. Here we demonstrate a simple process of transforming
general commodity cotton threads into intelligent e-textiles using a
polyelectrolyte-based coating with carbon nanotubes (CNTs). Efficient charge
transport through the network of nanotubes (20 omega/cm) and the possibility to
engineer tunneling junctions make them promising materials for many
high-knowledge-content garments. Along with integrated humidity sensing, we
demonstrate that CNT-cotton threads can be used to detect albumin, the key
protein of blood, with high sensitivity and selectivity. Notwithstanding future
challenges, these proof-of-concept demonstrations provide a direct pathway for
the application of these materials as wearable biomonitoring and telemedicine
sensors, which are simple, sensitive, selective, and versatile.

5: Nano Lett. 2008 Dec;8(12):4386-90.

We describe an aptamer-based surface enhanced resonance Raman scattering (SERRS)
sensor with high sensitivity, specificity, and stability for the detection of a
coagulation protein, human alpha-thrombin. The sensor achieves high sensitivity
and a limit of detection of 100 pM by monitoring the SERRS signal change upon the
single-step of thrombin binding to immobilized thrombin binding aptamer. The
selectivity of the sensor is demonstrated by the specific discrimination of
thrombin from other protein analytes. The specific recognition and binding of
thrombin by the thrombin binding aptamer is essential to the mechanism of the
aptamer-based sensor, as shown through measurements using negative control
oligonucleotides. In addition, the sensor can detect 1 nM thrombin in the
presence of complex biofluids, such as 10% fetal calf serum, demonstrating that
the immobilized, 5'-capped, 3'-capped aptamer is sufficiently robust for clinical
diagnostic applications. Furthermore, the proposed sensor may be implemented for
multiplexed detection using different aptamer-Raman probe complexes.

6: Nano Lett. 2008 Dec;8(12):4593-6.

X-ray based computed tomography (CT) is among the most convenient
imaging/diagnostic tools in hospitals today in terms of availability, efficiency,
and cost. However, in contrast to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and various
nuclear medicine imaging modalities, CT is not considered a molecular imaging
modality since targeted and molecularly specific contrast agents have not yet
been developed. Here we describe a targeted molecular imaging platform that
enables, for the first time, cancer detection at the cellular and molecular level
with standard clinical CT. The method is based on gold nanoprobes that
selectively and sensitively target tumor selective antigens while inducing
distinct contrast in CT imaging (increased X-ray attenuation). We present an in
vitro proof of principle demonstration for head and neck cancer, showing that the
attenuation coefficient for the molecularly targeted cells is over 5 times higher
than for identical but untargeted cancer cells or for normal cells. We expect
this novel imaging tool to lead to significant improvements in cancer therapy due
to earlier detection, accurate staging, and microtumor identification.

7: Pediatrics. 2009;123(1):e1-8.

OBJECTIVE: Tuberculous meningitis is the most severe extrapulmonary complication
of tuberculosis, with high morbidity and mortality rates. The objective of this
study was to assess the relationship between presenting clinical characteristics
and outcome of pediatric tuberculous meningitis. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We present
a retrospective cohort study of all of the children diagnosed with tuberculous
meningitis in a large university hospital in South Africa between January 1985
and April 2005. We compared demographic, clinical, and diagnostic characteristics
with clinical outcome after 6 months of treatment. RESULTS: We included 554
patients. Common characteristics on admission were young age (82%; <5 years),
stage II or III tuberculous meningitis (97%), nonspecific symptoms existing for
>1 week (58%), poor weight gain or weight loss (91%), loss of consciousness
(96%), motor deficit (63%), meningeal irritation (98%), raised intracranial
pressure (23%), brainstem dysfunction (39%), and cranial nerve palsies(27%).
Common features of tuberculous meningitis on computed tomography scan of the
brain were hydrocephalus (82%), periventricular lucency (57%), infarctions(32%),
and basal meningeal enhancement (75%). Clinical outcome after 6 months was as
follows: normal (16%), mild sequelae (52%), severe sequelae (19%), and death
(13%). All of the patients diagnosed with stage I tuberculous meningitis had
normal outcome. Factors associated with poor outcome in univariate analyses were
as follows: African ethnicity, young age, HIV coinfection, stage III tuberculous
meningitis, absence of headache and vomiting, convulsions, decreased level of
consciousness,motor deficits, cranial nerve palsies, raised intracranial
pressure, brain stem dysfunction and radiographic evidence of hydrocephalus,
periventricular lucency, and infarction. Ethnicity, stage of disease, headache,
convulsions, motor function, brainstem dysfunction, and cerebral infarctions were
independently associated with poor outcome in multivariate logistic regression
analysis. CONCLUSIONS: Tuberculous meningitis starts with nonspecific symptoms
and is often only diagnosed when brain damage has already occurred. Earlier
diagnosis will improve outcome significantly. We were able to identify presenting
variables independently associated with poor clinical outcome.

8: South Med J. 2008 Aug;101(8):786-90.

BACKGROUND: Increasing utilization and appeal of substance abuse services
requires understanding public perceptions of substance abuse and problem
resolution. METHOD: A statewide survey (N = 439) assessed public views of the
prevalence of problems, service utilization, and outcomes using random digit
dialing sampling. RESULTS: Compared with population data, the sample
overestimated the prevalence of alcohol and drug problems, accurately gauged
rates of help-seeking for substance-related problems, and underestimated rates of
recovery, particularly natural resolutions without treatment. Perceived
influences on help-seeking included extrinsic pressures like legal problems and
wanting help with problems of living related to substance misuse. CONCLUSIONS:
Substance abuse is less prevalent and less intractable than the public perceives,
and natural resolutions are common, but appear to be largely hidden from the
public view. Implications for reducing barriers and expanding services in
healthcare and public health settings are discussed.

9: Swed Dent J Suppl. 2009;(198):10-139.

This thesis attempts to describe the opinion of the work with quality, quality
management, and work environment among the employees at Oral and Maxillofacial
Surgery (OMFS) clinics in Sweden. THIS THESIS AIMED TO: Analyse if the OMFS
clinics in Sweden actively work with quality development and if so which systems
they use. Explore the opinion of the employees about quality work. Describe how
the employees of OMFS clinics in Sweden perceive good work, i.e., their image of
the dimensions that the profession should contain to be really good work.
Investigate whether there is a discrepancy between ideal and reality for this
group. Describe how the employees of OMFS clinics in Sweden perceive their
health. Analyse how work environment influenced attitudes to and knowledge of
quality among employees of OMFS clinics in Sweden. The study was based on
self-report questionnaires which in 2003 were sent to all OMFS clinics in Sweden.
The response rate was 86%. Only at two clinics did all the respondents agree on
their system. Surgeons rated intellectually stimulating work as most important,
and the hazard-free work environment as least important. The nurses rated
stimulating fellowship as most important, and the opportunity for career
advancement as least important. The percentage unit differences between the ideal
and the reality were largest for the item the work provides opportunities to have
an influence on important decisions. There were significant differences between
maxillofacial. surgeons and dental nurses and assistant nurses as to muscle- and
joint trouble. The differences were also significant between men and women both
as to muscle- and joint troubles and somatic trouble. Only work environment was
significant for attitude towards quality work. Profession, gender, clinic size,
and a factor for hard demand had significant associations to quality management
system used or not. IN CONCLUSION: More than half of the respondents stated that
they worked with a quality system. The dental nurses and assistant nurses had a
much more positive view on the potential of quality work as a means to improve
their work than had the maxillo-facial surgeons. For a majority of the dental
nurses the working situation concerning the physical environment was more
important than for the maxillo-facial surgeons. The employees emphasized free,
influential, and intellectually stimulating work, but the dissonance between
ideal and reality was rather wide concerning good work. OMFS employees are
feeling unhealthy, but no worse than other high-risk-groups in human service
working and better than female general practice dentists. The women of OMFS
employees feel worse than the men.

10: Photodiagnosis Photodyn Ther. 2008 Jun;5(2):153-8. Epub 2008 Jul 7.

Non-muscle invasive bladder cancer is the most expensive cancer to manage on a
per patient basis due to the high recurrence rate, low mortality and the need for
long term, often lifelong surveillance. Current white-light endoscopic surgery
leads to a significant number of patients having "recurrent" cancer at their
first follow-up cystoscopy. The introduction of a single dose of intravesical
chemotherapy immediately after the initial resection has helped to reduce the
recurrence rate but it can be toxic and should not be administered to patients
with potential bladder perforations after transurethral resection of bladder
tumour (TURBT). Photodynamic diagnosis cystoscopy has been shown to significantly
improve the quality of the initial TURBT leading to a 20% reduction in tumour
recurrences at 3 months. This benefit is sustained for at least 8 years, leading
to a reduction in further invasive procedures and treatment. Despite the initial
increased cost related to introducing a photodynamic diagnosis service there is
clearly long-term significant cost savings to be made, as well as improving the
patient experience and quality of life.
